= Expectacular

A small DSL to write meaningful assertions on your test/unit tests.

== Usage

    require "expectacular"

    class TestFoo < Test::Unit::TestCase
      include Expectacular::TestCaseMethods

      def test_obviousness
        expect(1).to == 1
	expect(5).to.be > 3
	expect(nil).to.be_nil
	expect(5).not_to == 4
      end
    end

== Expectations

Including <tt>Expectacular::TestCaseMethods</tt> will add your test cases a
single method: <tt>expect</tt>, which takes any object as an argument and
returns an <tt>Expectacular::Expectation</tt> in return. You can do assertions
on expectations, by calling the methods <tt>Expectation#to</tt> and 
<tt>Expectation#not_to</tt>.

    expect(1).to == 1
    expect(3).not_to == 0

<tt>to</tt> and <tt>not_to</tt> return an <tt>Assertion</tt>. In its context
you can call several methods to test the behavior of your objects.

== Assertions

Expectacular comes with some assertions bundled:

* Predicates (<tt>be_foo</tt> to check that <tt>foo?</tt> returns true)

Whenever you call a method that is not one of the above, the method (and any
arguments) get forwared to the object in which you set the expectation, and the
result is treated as the assertion (if it returns true the test is considered
to pass, if it returns false it considers the assertion to fail -- unless you
are using <tt>not_to</tt>, in which case it's the other way around.)

For example, Expectacular doesn't define any operator assertions, those are
forwarded to the object you're setting expectations on. So the following:

    expect(foo).to =~ /bar/
    expect(foo).not_to == "bars"

Just calls <tt>foo =~ /bar/</tt> and <tt>!(foo == "bars")</tt> and makes an
assertion for each of those.

== Writing your own assertions it's stupidly easy

    module MyAwesomeAssertion
      THRESHOLD = 10_000

      def be_very_awesome
        assert(object.awesomeness >= THRESHOLD,
	       "Expected #{object} to be very awesome")
      end
    end

    Expectacular::Assertion.add MyAwesomeAssertion

    expect(foo).to.be_very_awesome

Assertions have access to the following two methods:

<tt>object</tt>:: which returns the object on which you're setting the 
                  expectation.
<tt>assert</tt>:: which takes a boolean value and a failure message.

You can also pass a block to <tt>Assertion.add</tt> with the method 
definitions, so the above example could also be written as:

    Expectacular::Assertion.add do
      THRESHOLD = 10_000

      def be_very_awesome
        assert(object.awesomeness >= THRESHOLD,
               "Expected #{object} to be very awesome")
      end
    end

    expect(foo).to.be_very_awesome

== Why?

Mostly, as an experiment, also, I usually don't like libraries that mess around
with core classes, so this one doesn't :)

== Credits

Thanks to Daniel Cadenas (github[http://github.com/dcadenas]) for design and 
syntax ideas.

Author:: Nicolás Sanguinetti (github[http://github.com/foca])
License:: MIT. See attached LICENSE file for details.
